To start, you must select an available color by either using the mouse and 
clicking on a color, or by pressing the first character of the color, for 
example, pressing 'b' will bring up the Blue dialog box.

Type in your name or a pseudonym of up to 10 characters. This name will be 
passed around to the other nodes. Backspacing will clear the previous 
character from the field.

Once a name has been entered, you may start playing.

To "draw" a line, you have four options:

   Place the mouse pointer on the gray rectangle between the posts and press 
   the left button.

   Place the mouse pointer to the left or right of the rectangle between the 
   posts and, holding down the left mouse button, drag to the right or left so 
   that you pass between the two posts.

   Place the mouse pointer to the top or bottom of the rectangle between the 
   posts and, holding down the left mouse button, drag to the bottom or top so 
   that you pass between the two posts.

   When three sides of the square have been selected, you can press the right 
   mouse button which will cause the final line will be "drawn" and the square 
   filled with your color.

Play is alternate. You draw your line and then your opponents draw theirs. If 
you complete a box, it is still your turn and you must draw another line. 

When the game is complete, the center of each square will change to the 
winner's color.

The following keys are available at various points during the game:

   <Shift>+<S> - Saves the game to Dot2Dot.Dat. Make sure you have write 
                 permission to Dot2Dot.Dat or you will lose whatever game is 
                 currently being run.
   <Shift>+<R> - "Plays" the saved game. This will only work before any game 
                 moves (including selecting a color).
   <Shift>+<B> - Invoke "Blind" mode. This allows players who have a hard time 
                 seeing the lines as they are being drawn. Each line is filled 
                 by the current player's color rather than the default gray. 
                 This is also available from the command-line by passing 
                 "Blind" or just the letters 'b'/'B' to Dot2Dot. Make sure you 
                 have write permission to Dot2Dot.Dat or you will lose 
                 whatever game is currently being run.
   <Q>         - Quit. You will be prompted with a dialog box. Using the 
                 mouse, select the answer (Yes or No) or you may press the 
                 letter 'Y' or 'N'.
   <N>         - Clears the entire game. Redraws the board and resets each of 
                 the players. (No it doesn't ask you.)
   <[color]>   - A single character for each of the colors ('B'lue, 'M'agenta, 
                 'Y'ellow, 'R'ed, 'G'reen and 'C'yan). This brings up the name 
                 dialog box.
   <H>         - Help. This brings up the first help screen as you enter the 
                 game. You may also using the mouse to press the large white 
                 '2' in the Dot 2 Dot logo at the upper right corner. You can 
                 read help by passing '?' on the command-line to Dot2Dot.

Starting Dot2Dot: No moves can be made until a player has selected a color.
  To select your color, use the mouse pointer and position it over one of the 
  boxes (preferably a blank one) and press the left button. A dialog box is 
  created to allow you to enter your name. You may type up to 8 characters.

How to Play: Using the mouse pointer, press the left button and drag 
  perpendicular between two posts, causing a line to be drawn. When you have 
  four lines that complete a box, the box will be filled with your color and 
  your score will increase by one. You may press the right mouse button while 
  within a box with three sides completed and the fourth side will complete 
  and the box will fill.

Ending Dot2Dot: Whomever has the most squares at the end of Dot2Dot is the 
  winner. You may press 'Q' to quit Dot2Dot at any time.

About Dot2Dot: Dot2Dot is what I call the game. I don't recall that it ever 
  had a real name. You would take a piece of paper and create a dot grid of 
  any size on it. You and someone else would then alternately start drawing 
  lines. If you completed a box, you put your initials in it and drew another 
  line. The person who had the most boxes at the end won.

History:
  Block Buster v1.0 was written in Microsoft QuickBasic to demonstrate how to 
    play to my oldest daughter. It used CGA and no mouse. You used the 
    keyboard to move a crosshair around the grid.
  Dot2Dot v2.0 was written using TurboC. I had the idea to have the game work 
    across a network using NETBIOS. Using CB and _C Programmer's Guide to 
    NETBIOS_ I tried to get it working. That didn't work well, but the game 
    was written in C and used EGA.
  Dot2Dot v3.0 was written using Borland C++ v3.1. I have been using TCP/IP 
    and FTP's SDK and decided to rewrite it again. I have learned more about 
    C and rewrote most of the 2.0 version and now have TCP/IP support using 
    FTP's kernal. Now you should be able to play Dot2Dot from any point on 
    the Globe where you are connected to the Internet.
  Dot2Dot v3.1 was written using Microsoft C v6.0. I prefer to use Borland C++
    but due to the price of getting the Borland libraries from FTP, I changed
    to MSC.



Dot2Dot is Copyright (C), 1986 - 1996 by Carl Schelin. All Rights Reserved.
